---
up: "[[Bayesian Learning]]"
aliases:
tags:
  - concept/definition
  - bayes/learning
---
> [!definition] Definition (Individual Learning).
> Agent $i$ learns $\theta$ if, for each $q \in (0,1)$, there exists $T<\infty$ such that
>
> $$
> P_{\theta}(B_{it}^{q}(\{ \theta \}\times \mathcal{X}^{\infty}))>q\qquad \forall t>T 
>$$

Equivalently,

$$
\lim_{ t \to \infty } P_{\theta}(B_{it}^{q}(\{ \theta \}\times \mathcal{X}^{\infty})) = 1\qquad \forall q\in(0,1)
$$

That is, agent $i$ individually learns _if the agent learns each_ $\theta \in\Theta$. Note that [[p-belief#^ml-def-q-belief]].


Individual learning under the Bayesian framework is that repeated exposure to independent signals generated by the true state will eventually overwhelm any subjective beliefs (the prior). See [[Sequential Signal Model]] for the general setup.

## Importance and Formalization

The notion of individual learning is related to [[Doob's Consistency Theorem]] in that the agent eventually learns the parameter, and a consequence of this is that $\theta$ converges to its true value almost surely. This consistency holds for nearly all parameter values, though learning may fail on a set of parameter values that has measure-zero under the agent's prior belief. 

### Foundation for agreement and Common Learning

Individual learning provides the basis for the convergence of beliefs between different agents. In [[Merging of Beliefs (Blackwell-Dubins)]], if two agents start with different priors but observed the same infinite sequence of signals, the result of individual learning implies that the posterior beliefs will converge to the true parameter, and thus their beliefs will also converge to one another almost surely. 

Individual learning is necessary for [[Common Learning]], which is the stronger condition that agents eventually have [[Common p-Belief|common q-belief]] in the true-parameter. When signal realizations are finite or signals are conditionally independent, [[Individual Learning implies Common Learning]]. 

### Highlighting the role of dogmatism 

This highlights [[Dogmatism as a critique of Bayesian Learning]]. 

